# Optimization-modeling-project-using-Excel-Solver
In this project, a transhipment optimization model for the smartphone supply chain is built using Excel Solver where three types of goods are transported from three factories to five retailers with four warehouses playing the role of intermediaries. In the model, the decision variables are the quantities of all three products being transported via are different routes. Moreover, there are three main types of transporting routes including routes from factories to warehouses, factories to retailers and warehouses to retailers. The purpose of this model is to minimize the cost of delivering products from factories to retailers by determining the decision variables which are the optimal numbers of goods allocated to each of the transportation routes. Figure 1 explains the components of the equations which will be given in the next part. 
The detailed model could be observed in the **Smartphone Optimization modelling using Excel Solver.csv** file. All the data used in this model were logically assumed and provided by module lecturers at the University of Huddersfield.
The expected outcome of this model was to determine the decision variables aforementioned so as to minimize the operating cost of the supply chain as well as optimizing its profit under the influence of several constraints. All main constraints considered in this project include_ factory capacity_, _warehouse capacity_, _retailer demand_, _consistency between the quantity of products transported to and received by warehouses_ and _the carbon tax constraint_. 
Moreover, a sensitivity report was generated to identify potential modifications to the given parameters so as to adjust the decision variables without affecting the entire model. 
The detailed calculation and explanation of variables and constraints in the model could be accessed via the **Smartphone optimization modeling analysis.docx** file.
